So now we're going to start to get into Flexbox.
I want to show you how to create a flex a flex box or a flex container and flex items within it and
how to align them in a row or a column.
So in our CSS sandbox, I'm going to create a new file called 16 Underscore and we'll call this flex
underscore basics HTML and we'll create a quick boilerplate here.
Let's say flex basics and style.
So I'm just going to add some default styling.
We'll set the box sizing to border box and I just want to add a font family onto the body so it doesn't
look really ugly.
So set this to Ariel.
Now in the body here, we're going to have a class div with the class of flex container.
And this doesn't have to be a div, it could be a UL, it could be absolutely anything can be a flex
container or a flex box and then each direct child will be a flex item.
And that could be images, divs list items, and you could have them like you could have an image and
then you could have a div and these would both be direct elements, so they'd be flex items.
But we're going to have three divs.
So let's create a div with the class of item and then item one and here we'll have an H three and we'll
say item one and let's just copy this down.
We'll have three of these and it doesn't matter how many you have, they'll still align correctly.
So this will be item two and item two for the class item three.
And I'm only given these specific classes here because we haven't gotten into pseudo selectors, which
is what I would use normally to access these.
So we wouldn't, we actually wouldn't need these extra classes, but I don't want to do stuff that we
haven't got into yet.
Now up here I'm just going to style the items so we can, so we can tell them apart better because right
now they're just h threes.
In fact, I can just open this up in live server and let's make this a little smaller.
We can close this up because I want to be able to see both of these at the same time, but have enough
room here.
So for the item, let's style this.
Let's give it a background.
Excuse me, let's do a light gray.
So light gray background.
We'll do a border.
Solid and let's do to pixels of a border we'll taste space them apart with a margin.
Add some padding.
It already has padding but will make it ten pixels.
And let's do text a line to the center and let's also do a border radius of ten pixels.
Now, if I want to align these side by side with Flexbox, it's incredibly easy.
We just take the flex container, whatever that may be.
In this case, it's just a div with the class flex container and we just set the display property.
So remember we have display block, we have inline inline block.
We also have flex as an option.
And as soon as I do that, it turns it into a flex box and we automatically have certain alignment properties
and stuff that we can use.
We also have properties to basically change the widths of these to fill up the entire row, which I'm
going to get into in the next video.
But for now I'm just going to set this to a width.
So the item I'm setting to a width of 200 pixels.
So each one of these items are going to be 200 pixels.
And it doesn't matter how many of these we have, we can add an extra one here and we could add anything
like if I put an H one, as long as it's a direct child of flex flex container, it's going to be put
into the flex box and added to the row.
Now we can also change the direction or the orientation of our flex box.
So by default, let's say flex direction by default it's a row which goes horizontal and in a row this
is the main access and this is the cross axis.
Now I can change this to a column and then they're going to be stacked on top of each other.
Now this is the main axis of the flex box and this is the cross axis.
So the axis changes depending on the direction.
And we can also do column, column, reverse.
And now notice that item three is on top.
So that will reverse it.
We can also do row reverse and it'll actually align to this side.
And then item one is at the end, but I'm just going to keep this at row.
In fact, we don't even need to use it because that's the default anyway.
Now before we move on to the next video and look at some other properties, the last one I want to show
you here is flex wrap.
So by default, we have this set to I believe it's no wrap where if we make this smaller, you'll see
that they just shrink up until they can't shrink anymore.
But if we have flex wrap set to wrap and we go ahead and shrink this, notice how when we get to a certain
size, they basically move on to the next row.
So I mean, it really just depends on how you want your layout, but I'm not going to use Flex Wrap,
so I'm going to comment that out.
So in the next video, I want to go over how we can change the widths because you might not always want
just a fixed width for your items, you might want to have one take up a certain fraction of the page
and another a certain fraction.
So we're going to get into properties like flex, flex, grow, flex, shrink and the flex property
itself.